New words...
  1.
    predict
  2.
    cardinal number
    unprecedented
    physical law
    subject to faith as "magic"
    socially superior
    collapse
    gain power
    confuse
    devise
    mastering
    numeration way
    necessary
    intuition
    distinguish
    weirdo
  3.
    specification
  
1. First
  This is a simple game. Shoot ALL composite numbers. That is all. Press [←|→] to move and press [↑] to shoot. Press [H] to help you when in trouble.
  If you want to close this help, Shoot [Help] again. Your PC will recognize and predict your wishes, motions, thinking method from the timing when [Help] is shot and make your hope realize!

2. At that time in a city ...
  A programmer shouted, "Numbers are not dependent on culture and common in all the world! What is the way to find such a wonderful element of number? The way of not dependent on cardinal numbers and to decompose uniquely... That is PRIME FACTORIZATION! "
  At that time, people had unprecedented experience such as Disabled of magic and Collapse of physical law.
  In the city, most jobs are done by the automation system subject to faith as "magic".
  And something that is in socially superior position which is said to be "priest" ... Engineers also exist.
  One of them used a 3D hologram display which is said to be "church" and spoke
  "This world may collapse someday. God is beginning to change magic mechanism. We are rewriting magic, but priests will run short soon. Then, I want all people in this world to gain power as priests."
  Most citizens thought "High intelligence is required to become a priest, therefore there is the position of the priest. So, it is impossible for citizen to be a priest."
  And the other citizens were just confused.
  And then the priest said "With the currently change, God devises a method to display all natural numbers as prime factors. Description of the future of the magic is done this numeration way as basic! But 'mastering' is necessary to master this method. So, I developed one application magic. That is 'Prime Shooter'"
  After that, the game was displayed by the magic which he executed.

  This game was created by the priest.... Sorry, the game was really created by programmer. Start by training intuition first. 
  Distinguish prime numbers in a moment.
  When you become be able to distinguish prime numbers in a moment, you will be loved as a "weirdo"!

3.So what? Show me how to count the score
Certainly, I will tell you.
They are as follows:
A prime number N is removed by green horizon line "Filter": +1 Level +7N Points
A composite number N is shot: +1/7 Levels +N Points
A prime number N is shot: -31/7 Levels) -31N Points -3 Lives
A prime number N has fell and disappear: +11/7 Levels +11N Points
A composite number N has fell and disappear: -17/7 Levels -17N Points -1 Life
Every 13 Levels increase: +1 Help
Every 97 Levels increase: +1 Filter
Do you understand already? 7,11,13,17,31,97... Yes, they are prime numbers!
"Level" is the biggest of falling numbers.
Thinking about the game is important!
how far you know the specification of the game, is also important.

4. God said,
  "Well, what should I do now... Oh, yes! I should make people prime factorization!"

5.The city and the boy and the "Prime Shooter"
  Unfortunately, this paragraph has not been translated.